# Robot Site Investigation

### Purpose
One of the goals of this project is to determine the time it takes a robot to investigate five different meteorite landing sites in the Syrtis Major on Mars. First, the coordinates and meteorite composition found in each site will be randomly generated (by *site_generation.py*, dumped in *random_sites.json*). Taking that data of the sites, the time it takes for a robot to travel to each of the five sites will be calculated. Lastly, the total time for the robot to finish all five site investigations will be calculated, to determine the efficiency of the robot on Mars (*trip_time.py*). Going through this project and writing the code, the main objective is to learn how to work with the JSON data format, while learning the application it has with Python. It is important to learn JSON as it is a powerful and flexible data format applicable in the technological industry, especially in web applications. Thus, fimiliarizing and working with JSON will allow for the understanding the capability of JSON in large data formats.

### Code Scripts
In the *site_generation.py* file, line 6 `meteorite_compositions = ...` creates a list of the types of meteorite that can be found in a site. From lines 8-16 `random_sites = ...`, the sites dictionary is created. This block of code generates 5 different sites with their respective coordinates for location, and the type of meteorite found on the site, each generated randomly. The coordinates have a range of latitude between 16.0-18.0 degrees North, and longitude between 82.0-84.0 degrees East. This data of the sites is then dumped into the *random_sites.json* file, for use in the file *trip_time.py*.

In the *trip_time.py* file, line 6 `with open...` reads the JSON file generated by the code in *site_generation.py*. The robot will initially begin at coordinates latitude 16.0, longitude 82.0, and travel to the first generated site, all the way to the fifth. From lines 16-19, the `def calc_gcd...` function allows for the calculation of the distances between each of the generated sites (in kilometers), and line 26 `time_to_site...` calculates the time it takes (in hours), given the robot's max speed (10 km/hr). Lines 31-41 `if sites_d...` will determine the amount of time the robot will stop at each site to collect the meteorite sample found there (which is different for each type of sample). Lastly, line 47 `print...` will display the total time it takes the robot to travel from site to site to collect the sample during this expedition.

### Running the Code
First, the two files *site_generation.py* and *trip_time.py* must be in the same directory for the program to function properly. Next, the *site_generation.py* needs to be ran with the line: 
> python3 site_generation.py

After the *random_sites.json* file has been successfully created, then it is time to calculate the robot's expedition time with the line: 
> python3 trip_time.py

This will output the time it takes the robot to travel from site to site, starting from the initial location of the robot. On the last line, the total expedition time of the robot will output as well. The lower the time shown, the nearer the sites are with one another, and less the time the robot will need to travel to collect all samples.